ci, docs: Remove Spectrum CSS dependencies and processing (#5472)
adobe/spectrum-web-components: projects/documentation/content/guides/styling-components.md

---
layout: guide.njk
title: 'Styling Components: Spectrum Web Components'
displayName: Styling Components
slug: styling-components
---

# Styling Components

This document outlines the details of the CSS styling for Spectrum Web Components.

## Component Styling

> For each component in the project, there are upto 3 CSS files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each component in the project, there are up to 3 CSS files:
```
There's a space missing between "up" and "to."

> -   `spectrum-[component-name].css` - This is the main CSS file for the component that is generated by the last build from the Spectrum CSS project before the cutoff.

Reviewer 2: Should we explain what we mean by "the cutoff" since these docs are external-facing?

Author: ```suggestion
-   `spectrum-[component-name].css` - This is the main CSS file for the component that is generated by the last build from the Spectrum CSS project before we removed that package as a dependency.
```

@nikkimk what about this?

> -   `[component-name]-overrides.css` - This is the CSS file for the component that contains the system overrides which take different values in different themes. It was also generated by the last build from the Spectrum CSS project before the cutoff.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   `[component-name]-overrides.css` - This is the CSS file for the component that contains the system overrides which take different values in different themes. It was also generated by the last build from the Spectrum CSS project before we removed that package as a dependency.
```

}
```

This will just work! As long as the `--spectrum-component-height-300` variable exists in the tokens package.

- If it's an update to how a component looks in one particular theme, it belongs in `[component-name]-overrides.css`.

The process to update the overrides file involves a few extra steps:

1. Update the `[component-name]-overrides.css` file to contain the new styles.
2. Make sure the new `--system-` variable exists in the tokens package. This variable can be found in the `tools/styles/tokens/[express | spectrum]/system-theme-bridge.css` file or the `tools/styles/tokens-v2/system-theme-bridge.css` file depending on the theme.
3. If the variable doesn't exist, we will need to add it to the correct file.

## Global styling

SWC project uses styles package to manage the global css tokens for all three themes. The styles package can be found in `tools/styles`. There is one very small caveat in the way we manage the styles package. We have two different tokens packages, one for the express + spectrum theme and one for the spectrum 2 theme.

- `styles/tokens` - This is the tokens package for the express + spectrum theme.

> - `styles/tokens-v2` - This is the tokens package for the spectrum 2 theme.

Reviewer 3: super nit: is it worth properly capitalizing Spectrum and Express on these?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `styles/tokens` - This is the tokens package for the Express + Spectrum theme.
- `styles/tokens-v2` - This is the tokens package for the Spectrum 2 theme.
```
